# Compucorp 324G Scientist
This information is based on the 324G calculator I have in my possession.  It will be relevant to other 320-series calculators to varying degrees.<br>

This calculator was also sold under other manufacturers' branding:
- Monroe
- Ricoh (as the X822)
- IME
- Sumlock Anita

Other models in the 300-series were:
- 320G Scientist with basic scientific functions
- 322G Scientist with additional programmability (one 80-step program)
- 324G Scientist with additional programmability (two 80-step programs)
- 325 Scientist with additional programmability, printing and cassette tape storage in a much larger case
- 326G Scientist with additional programmability and cassette tape storage
- 327 Scientist with 4x internal memory of the 325
- 340 Statistician with statistics functions
- 342 Statistician with additional programmability (one program)
- 344 Statistician with additional programmability (two programs)
- 354 Surveyor with scientific functions plus programmability (one program)
- 360 Bond Trader with bond trading functions
- 360/65 Bond Trader with additional FED/MUNI switch

The "G" in the model name [indicates](https://www.johnwolff.id.au/calculators/Compucorp/Compucorp320.htm) it could be switched between degrees and gradians/grads/grades/gons via the GRAD/DEG switch.<br>

The calculator is also referred to as the "300 Series Beta Computer".<br>

## Videos
- [Part 1: Power On & Disassembly](https://youtu.be/NjJ8rrLbnn0)
- [Part 2: Display Repair & USB Power](https://youtu.be/J1Y7ZJ_NeyI)
- [Part 3: Programming Lunar Lander](https://youtu.be/Psg4YwRlDQM)

## Power
My 324G came with a 240VAC (Australian) power supply that output an unregulated 11VDC (no load).<br>

It was originally designed to take four D-size NiCd rechargeable batteries.  Probably not a good idea to use non-rechargeable batteries if you are connecting the AC power adaptor.<br>

I have confirmed that the calculator looks to run okay on 5VDC (i.e. USB) consuming just over 1A.  I created a USB-to-2.1mm plug to confirm.

These are the voltages used in the calculator - all voltages except V<sub>SS</sub> are generated by the calculator:
- V<sub>SS</sub>: input voltage from AC charger or batteries (5.5-7V), this is the system's reference voltage and the "logic 1" level
- V<sub>BB</sub>: V<sub>SS</sub> + 3V RAM chip bias voltage
- V<sub>DD</sub>: V<sub>SS</sub> - 7.5V (RAM, ROM, logic)
- V<sub>GG</sub>: V<sub>SS</sub> - 15V (RAM, ROM, logic)
- GND: V<sub>SS</sub> - 5V ("logic 0" level)
- V<sub>BIAS</sub>: -60V (display)
- V<sub>KK</sub>: -120V (display)

## [Principles Of Operation](/Principles_Of_Operation)
Making the text from the Service Manual more easily searchable.

## [Component List](/Components)
Information about the components used in the calculator.

## [Keyboard](/Keyboard)
Information about the keyboard matrix & homebrew replacement keyboard with Cherry MX key switches or 6mm tactile switches - obviously not a direct replacement.

## [KiCad](/KiCad)
KiCad format schematics for the calculator, based on my 324G.<br>

Note that these will likely be incomplete for a long time (forever) depending on what time/interest I have to trace the circuitry.<br>

My main target at the moment is the keyboard and Scan board due to the display issues I have.<br>

### Completion
- Keyboard: 100% complete
- Scan Board: 10% complete
- Processor Board: 95% complete
- Memory Board: 95% complete
- Power Board: 5% complete

## [Manuals](/Manuals)
Any relevant manuals I might come across.

## [Panaplex II](/Panaplex_II_Display)
Information about the Burroughs Panaplex II display used in the calculators as this seems hard-to-come-by.<br>

The particular model is the 16 digit BR 16252 which was used in other devices such as the HP 9815A.<br>

On the 324G, at least, only 15 digits are really used (I think).  The 16th (first on left) is only used for a negative sign (?).<br>

## [Schematics](/Schematics)
Schematics I've generated from KiCad ... I doubt I'll ever find originals.<br>

## [Images](/Images)
Photos of 324G calculator and its internals.

## [Test Harness](/Test_Harness)
Idea I had about creating a test harness: install all the boards onto a special PCB to make testing/troubleshooting easier.  Work in progress.

## [Programs](/Programs)
A programming sheet and sample programs.
